---
description: ''
sidebar: 'started'
---
# Loop & Conditional Statement

When examining data generated by 'Model Explorer,' you may encounter not only key-value types but also object or array types. 

In such cases, you can use loops to iterate over the same code block multiple times, retrieving data from each internal object.

## 1. # Iteration

Use {{#iterableObject}}{{/iterableObject}} , where the iterable object can be an object or an array.

```
fieldDescriptors: 
[
    {'name': 'id'},
    {'nameCamelCase': 'id'},
    {'className': 'Long'}
    {'isKey': true}
],
[
    {'name': 'userId'},
    {'nameCamelCase': 'userId'},
    {'className': 'String'}
    {'isKey': false}
],
[
    {'name': 'productName'},
    {'nameCamelCase': 'productName'},
    {'className': 'String'}
    {'isKey': false}
]
```

You can access the data in aggregate fields using aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors, which is an array of data.

To obtain information for each field, you can use the following:

Template
```
{{#aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
    private {{className}} {{nameCamelCase}};
{{/aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
```

Template Result
```
private Long id;

private String userId;

private String productName;
```

## 2. each Loop
You can use the each loop to iterate over objects or arrays. Use {{#each iterableObject}}{{/each}} format.

You can use the each loop to retrieve information about Aggregate fields as follows:

Template
```
{{#each aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
    private {{{className}}} {{nameCamelCase}};
{{/each}}
```

Template Result
```
private Long id;

private String userId;

private String productName;
```

## Conditional Statements

Conditional statements are useful for determining the appropriate result based on specific attributes or situations.

Commonly, {{#property}}{{/property}} is used for this purpose.

## 3. True Conditional Statement

True conditional statements are used when the result of a property is true. For instance, using {{#property}}{{/property}} to generate '@Id' only for specific fields:

Template
```
public class {{namePascalCase}} {

    {{#aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
        {{#isKey}}
        @Id
        {{/isKey}}
        private {{className}} {{nameCamelCase}};
    {{/aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
}
```
Template Result
```
public class Order {

    @Id
    private Long id;

    private String userId;

    private String productName;
}
```
Currently, the data for aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors has true for the isKey attribute in the id field and false for the name field. 

By using {{#isKey}}{{/isKey}}, '@Id' is generated only for the id field with a true value.

## 4. False Conditional Statement
Opposite to {{#property}}{{/property}}, false conditional statements are used when a property is false. Generally, {{^condition}}{{/condition}} is used, and you can also use {{#unless condition}}{{/unless}} to set conditions when the result is false.

Adding a false condition to the previous true condition, you can apply annotations only to fields that are not value objects and have the key value:

Template
```
public class {{namePascalCase}} {

    {{#aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
        {{^isVO}}
        {{#isKey}}
        @Id
        {{/isKey}}
        {{/isVO}}
        private {{className}} {{nameCamelCase}};
    {{/aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
}
```
Template Result
```
public class Order {

    @Id
    private Long id;

    private String userId;

    private String productName;
}
```

Currently, for aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors, the id field has no value for isVO, and the name field has "". By using {{^isVO}}{{/isVO}}, fields that do not meet the isVO false condition are first selected. Then, using {{#isKey}}{{/isKey}}, only the id field with isKey true is selected.

In summary, by using these two conditional statements, only the id field that is not a value object and has the key value is selected to have '@Id' generated.

## 5. if ~ else ~

Combining true and false conditional statements allows you to get different results depending on the situation.

Use {{#if condition}}{{else}}{{/if}}, where the code block after {{if condition}} is executed if the condition is true, and the code block after {{else}} is executed if the condition is not met.

Template
```
public class {{namePascalCase}} {

    {{#aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
        {{#if isKey}}
        @Id
        private {{className}} {{nameCamelCase}};
        {{else}}
        private {{className}} {{nameCamelCase}};
        {{/isKey}}
    {{/aggregateRoot.fieldDescriptors}}
}
```
Template Result
```
public class Order {

    @Id
    private Long id;

    private String userId;

    private String productName;
}
```
In this example, {{#if isKey}} is used to generate '@Id' only for the id field that meets the condition, and for fields that do not meet the condition, {{else}} is used to generate them without '@Id'.